# 2018-10-03

We have two categories of "stuff" we'd like to see done in the SDK:

* **Need**: Require this capability (or equivalent) for language to function.
* **Want**: Desire this capability for asthestics/semantics/performance/etc.

## Need

### Low-cost JSON representation

Given, say, the following structured object:

```json
{
  "name": "Joe Employee",
  "age": 35,
  "positions": [
    "engineer",
    "manager"
  ]
}
```

... we need to operate on a _typed_ form of this structure from `JSON.parse`:

```
import objects {
  Employee
}

// parse.cl
parse (json: String) -> {
  let e: Employeee = JSON.parse(json)
  print(e.name)
  print(e.age)
  print(e.positions)
}
```

### Access to "native" JS APIs

... such as those in the browser DOM, and NodeJS. This includes the "standard
library" primitives such as `String`, `Number`, more complex types like `Array`,
`Map`, and platform-dependent things such as a `InputElement`. It would be
acceptable to start with objects that don't rely on inheritance at first.

One idea:

```
// std.cl

// Declares the external type Number.
external type Number {
  // Declares Numbers can be added to other numbers, returning a Number.
  operator +(other: Number): Number
}
```

... right now some of these are just hard-coded into the compiler.

### Sufficient primitives

To start, we need:

* `String`
* `Boolean`
* `Number`
* `Nil` (or `Null`, or `Optional<T>`)
* `Array<T>` (where `<T>` is erased and is _invariant_ for now)
* `Something` (or `Object` or `Top`)
* `Nothing` (or `Never` or `Bottom`)

### Generics, with type erasure

I.e. enough to express `Array<T>`, at least.

### Object-literals or replacement

I.e. enough to express something like (in JS):

```js
object.doThing('foo', {bar: true})
//                    ^^^^^^^^^^^
```

## Want

### Interfaces, traits, or a way to have "API only" definitions

... with the concrete implementation hidden or separate.

### Predictable discrimination of types

Given something that could be `A` or `B`, determine which type it is. We want to
do so in such a way that doesn't require RTTI (runtime type information) to be
stored, which will hurt JS interopability.

Some ideas are pattern matching, etc.

### Extensions, or a way to add _new_ APIs

```
extend String {
  capitalize(this: String): String -> {
    // ...
  }
}

main -> {
  print('hello'.capitalize())
}
```

### A way to express multiple results/error cases

Either:

* Exceptions
* Tuples/Multiple Returns
* First-class `Result<T, ...>`

### Nullability

I.e. `Optional<T>` or similar.

### Discriminated type aliases

I.e. `newtype Name = String`

### Type contracts/guards

I.e.

```
external type Array<T> {
  operator[] (index: Number): T where index >= 0 {
    // ...                      ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
  }
}
```

### Type-based overloading

I.e.

```
class Foo {
  fn(): void -> {}
  fn(name: String): void -> {}
  fn(name: Number): void -> {}
}
```

### Access to allow "unsafe" APIs

I.e. some sort of `unsafe` modifier/block/expression.

### Variance, bounds, wildcard generics

### Metadata annotations/test features

### Bazel module support
